---
title: Dead in Yellow
date: 2020-01-27 00:00:00
tags: [film,script]
---

A drama written by me for my Final Major Project at the University of Winchester.
Unfilmed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Logline: A teenager, grappling with his identity and overwhelmed by societal expectations, seeks solace in a long-abandoned childhood sanctuary. As prom approaches, an unexpected turn of events forces him to confront his deepest fears and discover the courage to be true to himself.

{% asset_link Dead-in-Yellow-production.pdf Download the script (PDF) %}

---

EXT. TREE HOUSE - EVENING

A small clearing sits among a dense crowd of trees.

Rays of sunlight burst through the forest canopy, illuminating
the space.

A wooden sign marks the entrance. Painted in a childish font
are the words “Keep Out!”. Accompaning it, a skull and
crossbones symbol serves warning. Faded over time, battered by
the seasons.

Raised off the ground is a TREE HOUSE. Beside it on the forest
floor, a PIRATE SHIP. Each made out of a random assorment of
wooden planks and bits of tree. Both have been taken back by
nature.

The ship flies a faded YELLOW FLAG marked with the words “M &
D”. Two childrens' handprints are stamped onto it. It
struggles to flutter in the wind.

MATTHEW, 17, sits alone in the tree house on an old sofa
cushion, rolling a CIGARETTE.

The sounds of nature disturbed by the tinny sound of MUSIC
escaping his headphones. Beside him, a YELLOW BACKPACK and a
FLASK.

His PHONE begins to ring, disrupting the song. It's from his
Mum. He ignores it and it comes to an end. A notification pops
up: Missed Call from Mum (5).

He finishes rolling, places it behind his ear and climbs down.


EXT. STREET - EVENING

Matthew walks back down a quiet street smoking a cigarette.
His MUSIC remains on.

DANIEL (17), holding a skatebord, EMILY (17), and JESSICA (17)
are walking towards Matthew on the opposite side of the
street.

Jessica spots him first.

                    JESSICA
               (excitedly)
          Matt hey!

Matthew doesn't hear her.

                    DANIEL
          Matt!
               (beat)
          Matthew!

He jogs over the road cuts in front of Matthew. The others
follow.

Matthew starts to look up.

                    MATTHEW
          Fuck! You scared the shit out of
          me.

Jessica forces a slight laugh. He takes his earphones out.

Matthew and Daniel share a handshake.

                    DANIEL
          Where you going man.

                    MATTHEW
          Home, what about you?

                    DANIEL
          We're-

                    JESSICA
          -We're off to the rec, wanna join?

                    DANIEL
          Yeah come on.

                    MATTHEW
          I would but mum's in a mood.

                    DANIEL
               (jokingly)
          Fuck’s sake, fine-
               (walking off)
          Be boring!

Matthew smirks and puts his earphones back in.

                    JESSICA
          Bye Matt.


INT. MATTHEW'S HOUSE (DINING ROOM) - EVENING

Matthew's family sits eating dinner around the dining room
table.

His mum SARAH (44), his sister SYLVIA (15), and his dad MARK
(44) each occupy a side of the table, with an empty place set
for Matthew.

It's silent save for the scraping of cutlery. Sarah can't stop
shifting angrily in her seat.

We hear the backdoor open and close. Sarah lets out an angry
sigh.

                    SARAH
          Where on earth have you been?

Matthew ignores her and walks straight past.

                    SARAH (CONT'D)
          No-

                    MATTHEW
          But-

                    SARAH
          No. Come have dinner.

He comes back and sits at the table, dumping his bag by his
feet.

                    SARAH (CONT'D)
          I don't know why we pay for that
          phone you never seem to use it.
          Where were you? We eat the same
          time every week and you're never on
          time.

Matthew picks up whatever plate of food is nearest and dumps a
spoonful onto his plate. He doesn't care what he eats.

                    MATTHEW
          Nowhere.

                    SYLVIA
          Bet he was with his girlfriend.

                    MATTHEW
          Shut up.

                    MARK
          Hey.

Sylvia smirks.

Pause.

                    SARAH
          You can tell us you know.

                    MATTHEW
          I don't have a girlfriend.

                    SYLVIA
          That's not what Jessica's sister
          says.

                    MATTHEW
          You don't know shit.

                    SARAH
          Language!

                    MARK
          Matthew.

                    SARAH
          You don't speak to your sister like
          that, especially at the dinner
          table.

                    MARK
          Alright Sarah.

                    SARAH
           He knows he shouldn't be using
          language like that.

Everyone gets on with eating except Matthew, who plays with
his food. Then, out of nowhere:

                    SARAH (CONT'D)
          Now I think Jessica's a lovely
          girl. Why don't you ask her to
          prom? I'm sure it'd make her so
          happy.

Matthew ignores her.

                    MARK
          Sarah, come on leave it. You know
          they're going as a group.

                    SARAH
          I'm only saying. I just think it'd
          be nice. Where'd all this nonsense
          come from about going in groups, in
          our day you had to wait to be
          asked.

                    MARK
          Yes, well you don't need to say, do
          you. I'm sure they'll naturally
          pair up anyway, don't push them.

                    SARAH
          I'm not pushing them. I'm simply
          suggesting he asks Jessica so then,
          if Daniel and Emily pair up they
          won't be alone. Also he's 16 and
          never had a girlfriend that we know
          of, he needs to put himself out
          there.

                    MARK
          It's none of our business-

                    SARAH
          -of course it's our business, we're
          his parents. Don't lecture me on
          how to parent-

                    MARK
          -here we go.

                    SARAH
          What does that mean, you just can't
          let anything slide can you.

They begin to argue but it's muffled as Matthew sits silently,
trying not to be there.

![](/images/diy/diy1.jpg)


INT. MATTHEW’S HOUSE (MATTHEW'S BEDROOM) - NIGHT

Matthew lies in bed, staring blankly at the ceiling. His
earphones are in, MUSIC at the same loud volume as always.

![](/images/diy/diy3.jpg)

His mind is empty. Numb.

We can faintly hear his parents muffled arguing, it's as if
they haven't stopped.

Matthew's phone lights up: an invite to a party from Jessica.
He doesn’t acknowledge it.

The parents' argument reaches a crescendo and we hear a door
slam.

Matthew pulls a pillow out from under his head and smothers
his face with it.

                                           CUT TO: BLACK


EXT. TREE HOUSE - DAY

Matthew and Daniel are sat in the pirate ship. Daniel’s
sipping a CAN OF BEER, playing on his phone, and Matthew is
drinking from a FLASK, staring at the floor.

They sit in silence, disturbed only by the faint rustle of
leaves in the wind.

Daniel puts his phone away. He takes a deep breath in, bracing
himself.

                    DANIEL
          So, um, the other night, I sort of
          asked Emily to prom? Nothing's
          changed, don't worry, we're still
          going as a group. It was so sudden,
          it just...felt right I guess.

Daniel looks at him pleadingly, half joking. Matthew looks
back at him.

                    MATTHEW
          I mean, it was only a matter of
          time. Don't worry about it. Glad
          you finally stopped chickening out.

Daniel lets out a sigh of relief.

                    DANIEL
          It was amazing though man, we were
          making out and then, I just did it.
               (pause)
          Why don't you ask Jessica? At the
          party?

Matthew's mood flattens, he stares at the ground.

                    MATTHEW
          Maybe. I might not even go.

                    DANIEL
          To the party? Or prom.

Matthew shrugs.

                    MATTHEW
          Both. Either.

                    DANIEL
          Come one don't be like that man.
          You'll be fine once you're there.

Matthew takes a swig. Daniel thinks.

                    DANIEL (CONT'D)
          Do you remember our very first
          house party?

Daniel smiles at the memory. Matthew perks up, glad for the
nostalgia, for the distraction.

                    MATTHEW
          You got way worse than me.

                    DANIEL
          I've never puked so much in my
          life.

                    MATTHEW
          And you ran home naked.

                    DANIEL
          Ah fuck no, don't remind me!

Daniel reels at the memory and playfully nudges Matthew.

Matthew lets a proper laugh slip out, for the first time in a
while.

They both sit reminiscing as they fall to silence once more.


INT. MATTHEW'S HOUSE (PARENTS’ BEDROOM) - DAY

Matthew stands in front of the mirror in his prom suit,
staring at himself blankly. Sarah's doing Matthew's tie.

                    SARAH
          So you bring it up through the
          middle, then down through the loop
          and pull.

Sylvia is sat on the bed, not paying attention, texting on her
phone.

                    SARAH (CONT'D)
          There we are.

Sarah finishes tying Mathew's tie and begins to circle him,
obsessively straightening out every crease she can, picking
off fluff that isn’t there.

Mark is stood in the door frame, awkwardly distant from the
moment.

As Sarah fusses around Matthew, she’s talking to no one in
particular.

                    SARAH (CONT'D)
          Look at my handsome little boy.
          Seems like only yesterday you
          started high school. Reminds me of
          John and Diane’s wedding. Do you
          remember that Mark? He was dressed
          so smartly.

Matthew breaks eye contact with himself to look at Sylvia and
roll his eyes. What’s she like.

                    SARAH (CONT'D)
          Mark go fetch the camera I need a
          photo of him while he’s all dressed
          up.

Mark does so.

                    SARAH (CONT'D)
          That colour does look good on you.
          I rang Jessica's mum to find out
          what colour her dress was, she was
          right when she said it'd suit you
          too.

                    MATTHEW
          Wait what?!

                    SARAH
          I felt bad for poor Jessica, at
          least now you'll look like you're
          going together.

Matthew looks at her in disbelief. Anger and frustration begin
to take hold of him.

                    MATTHEW
          I'm not fucking asking her to prom,
          why can't you leave me alone?

His language shocks Sarah.

                    SARAH
          Don't you speak to me like that, I
          just thought- it'd be nice.

Matthew’s feelings reach boiling point and they burst out.

                    MATTHEW
          -just get off my back, Jesus.

In a rage he takes his tie off and storms out of the room.
Pushing past Mark as he returns with the camera.


INT. MATTHEW'S HOUSE (MATTHEW'S BEDROOM) - CONTINUOUS

Matthew  bursts in, taking off his tie and jacket, throwing
them onto his bed. He reaches under his bed and pulls out of a
bottle of vodka. Slumping down he takes one big gulp.


INT. HOUSE PARTY - NIGHT

It’s dark. Disco lights bring short glimpses onto the
characters of the room: a couple making out in the corner;
some friends chatting in a group at the back.

Daniel is stood with a GROUP OF FRIENDS.

We don't see any of that yet though, we're with Matthew. He's
tuned out. He's wearing a smart shirt, he's making an effort.

Jessica is sat on the sofa next to him, she’s a bit too close
for comfort, dutch courage. Matthew's holding a bottle of
alcohol. It's almost empty.

Music pounds in the background as Jessica talks to, at,
Matthew.

                    JESSICA
          -so like I know Amy wants this prom
          to be memorable but I don’t see why
          she needs to hire a big car for it.
          And she’s going with James? She
          hated James last week but now
          they’re back together. Honestly I
          just can't keep up, I only learn it
          all from Becky, she loves the
          gossip.

While she’s talking, Matthew looks around him and finds
Daniel.

He stares at him, eyeing him up. Admiring him.

Daniel looks round and notices Matthew looking at him. He
nudges his head towards Jessica. Go on.

Matthew sighs reluctantly, takes a sip, a deep breath in, and
interrupts Jessica:

                    MATTHEW
          -I’m going for a smoke,
               (beat)
          wanna come?

                    JESSICA
          Oh, ok, yeah sure.

They get up and go to--


EXT. GARDEN - CONTINUOUS

They stand alone. Matthew's rolling himself a cigarette. His
eyes flit between the cigarette and Jessica.

                    JESSICA
          I'm glad we're matching by the way.
          Takes out some of the stress. But
          there's no pressure to label it or
          anything, feel free to ask someone
          else.

Jessica lets out a nervous laugh and looks at him, trying to
see if he'll do just that or not.

Matthew lights his cigarette and takes a long drag.

                    JESSICA (CONT'D)
          Do you mind that we're matching?

Matthew shakes his head. Don't be ridiculous.

He offers her a drag. She accepts and faintly inhales.

                    JESSICA (CONT'D)
          Oh ok, cool. I guess I just didn't
          want you to resent it - prom that
          is - because we were matching. I
          don't know I guess I-

He watches her, eyeing her up, he's thinking.

Matthew makes a decision. He leans in and kisses her. It only
lasts a second though before they pull apart.

But then Jessica goes in again. It quickly becomes more
intense, catching Matthew by surprise.

Jessica drops the cigarette and puts her hands on his waist.
Matthew doesn't know what to do with his.

Matthew decides to take control, to force it to work, to make
it his decision.

He spins her around and pushes her against the wall. Matthew
moves to kissing her neck. Jessica’s hand slips round to the
front of Matthew’s trousers, undoing his belt. Matthew’s jaw
stutters ever so slightly with hesitation as her hand slips
down into his trousers. He goes back to kissing her as
Jessica's hand begins to move in circular motions. Matthew's
eyes scrunch up in concentration.

Her hand pauses. Matthew pauses.

Jessica looks embarrassed.

                    JESSICA (CONT'D)
          Oh, sorry is this not working for
          you?

                    MATTHEW
               (pulling away)
          It's not you I just-

Their eyes meet. Matthew's show just how drunk he really is.

                    JESSICA
          Wow, you really are drunk. Or,
          wait, don't tell me you're gay or
          something.

She laughs. Matthew finds it anything but funny.

Jessica considers she was right. Matthew briefly considers it
too. She gasps at the realisation.

                    JESSICA (CONT'D)
               (sympathetically)
          Oh Matt,-

He doesn't know how to react, or what to say.

Confusion quickly turns to rage and it rises up inside of him.

                    JESSICA (CONT'D)
          Matt, I'm sorry, I didn't know.
          It's totally fine don't worry about
          it. You should've said.

                    MATTHEW
          Stop don't.

He feels trapped, he doesn't like this. He panics and pushes
past her and back into the house.

                    JESSICA
          Matt wait-

He doesn't hear her, he's already through the house. Making
his way to the front door.


INT. HOUSE PARTY - CONTINUOUS

We hear the front door slam. Daniel looks up: Jessica is
coming back inside, she sees Daniel and gestures to him: I
don't know. He looks around for Matthew but can't see him.

Piecing two and two together he turns and leaves through the
front door.


EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Faint drops of rain begin to fall as we follow Matthew down
the street.

Beams of light from the street lights take it in turns to
illuminate Matthew’s face in the night.

Each glimpse we get of him reveals more and more his slow
decent into despair.

He shakily tries to roll a cigarette but he gives up, he isn't
in control of his hands.

His eyes are bleary. He marches on, angry and in the midst of
panic.

Daniel appears in the distance, jogging behind him. Calling
out to him:

                    DANIEL
          Matt.
               (beat)
          Matthew!
               (beat)
          Wait!

He gets in front of Matthew and stops him.

                    DANIEL (CONT'D)
          What happened back there?

Matthew just stares angrily into Daniels eyes, right on the
verge of crying.

                    MATTHEW
          Nothing happened. Just leave it.

Matthew tries to get past but Daniel stops him.

                    DANIEL
          Look, I know something’s going on.

He places his hand on Matthew's shoulder. Matthew shakes it
off.

                    DANIEL (CONT'D)
          Mate-

                    MATTHEW
          -Look I don't know! Ok? I don't
          know what the fuck is going on.
               (beat)
          I feel shit all the fucking time,
          but at the same time I feel so numb
          and nothing at all.
               (beat)
          Kissing Jessica was supposed to be
          it right? It's what you wanted,
          it's what mum wanted...it's what I
          was supposed to do. But it didn't
          fucking work did it?
               (angrily)
          Why didn't it fucking work?
               (beat; almost delirious)
          I don't belong here Daniel, I don't
          belong here...What's wrong with me?
          I'm not like you, why can't I be
          like you. What's wrong with me?
               (through tears)
          What's wrong-with me.

Matthew breaks down, he can't get anymore words out and every
emotion he’s been holding in comes flooding out. His crying
turns into sobbing. He can’t stop.

Daniel’s taken aback. He doesn’t know what to do, he’s never
seen Matthew like this.

                    DANIEL
          There's nothing wrong with you
          Matt, it’s ok.

                    MATTHEW
          Don’t tell me it’s ok. It’s not ok.

Daniel panics and he grabs Matthew, hugging him as hard as he
can.

                    DANIEL
               (whispering)
          It'll be ok.

Daniel's trying to convince himself of it just as much as he
is Matthew.

Matthew slowly begins to calm down.

They separate and Matthew takes a couple of controlled
breaths.

They look at each other, their faces close.

In this brief moment Matthew feels at ease.

Matthew goes to kiss Daniel. He goes in softer than he did
with Jessica. It feels different. It’s more intimate. It means
more.

But, Daniel immediately pulls back.

                    DANIEL (CONT'D)
          Woah woah.

Matthew tenses back up.

He half laughs, trying to recover the situation.

                    DANIEL (CONT'D)
          C'mon man, you're drunk.

Matthew shoves Daniel off and pushes past him.

                    DANIEL (CONT'D)
          I'm sorry Matt, but, not me.

Matthew’s tears come back and he begins to back away.

                    DANIEL (CONT'D)
          Wait, we can talk about it.

Turning round, Matthew slowly begins to jog away from the
situation.

                    DANIEL (CONT'D)
          Matthew!

Speeding up into a full blown sprint, Matthew runs off into
the night.

                                          CUT TO: BLACK.


EXT. TREE HOUSE - MORNING

The bright morning sun penetrates the canopy, a beam of light
falls onto: Matthew, curled in a tight ball on the forest
floor, sheltered by the tree house.

He looks a mess: his hair is scruffy and full of leaves, his
clothes are dirty, his knees muddy, and his clothes are still
damp from the night before.

He slowly begins to wake up.

The sun blinds him and he holds his pounding head.

He rushes to his feet and scampers off to vomit.

Coming back he checks his pockets, pulling out his phone he
sees it's dead.

He lets out a deep sigh and begins the walk home.


                         MONTAGE START

Over a series of days, we see Matthew at the clearing in the
forest, at home, and at various locations surrounding them.

He's entered a routine. Spending all day at the tree house,
isolating himself from everyone. His movements are slow and
slouched, he's in a pit of depression.


INT. MATTHEW'S HOUSE (MATTHEW’S BEDROOM) - EVENING

Matthew is curled up in a ball on his bed, staring at the
wall.

We hear a knock on the door.

                    SARAH (O.S.)
          Matthew.
               (pause)
          Matthew, Daniel came round today.
          He says he needs to speak to you. I
          said you'd message him back.

He ignores her.


OMITTED


EXT. COUNTRY LANE - EVENING

Matthew's walking home, without music.

His phone rings, it's from Daniel. He ignores it.


EXT. TREE HOUSE - DAY

Matthew is sat in his usual spot rummaging through his bag.

                    DANIEL (O.S.)
          Matt!

Matthew freezes.

Daniel is stood at the bottom of the tree house looking up.

                    DANIEL (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          Matthew I know you're up there.
               (pause)
          Come on man don't do this.

Matthew doesn't reply, he sits frozen in place.

                    DANIEL (O.S.) (CONT'D)
          Fine!

Daniel walks off and Matthew relaxes.


INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Matthew's showering, standing with a hunched back, facing the
wall. His skin is red from the boiling hot water. His knuckles
are red raw. He's crying.

![](/images/diy/diy2.jpg)

EXT. TREE HOUSE - DAY

Matthew runs his fingers along old markings on the wood of the
pirate ship, tracing old memories.


INT. MATTHEW'S HOUSE (DINING ROOM) - MORNING

Sarah, Sylvia, and Mark are sat round the table eating
quietly. There's a place set for Matthew.

Sarah looks to Mark to complain.

                    SARAH
          He can't just miss dinner like
          this, where is he.

                    MARK
          Leave him Sarah.

Sylvia murmurs under her breath.

                    SYLVIA
          Maybe if you tried asking him
          what's wrong.

Sarah looks to Mark.

Mark nods.


EXT. TREE HOUSE - DAY

Matthew steps in the pirate ship and sits at the helm.

![](/images/diy/diy4.jpg)


                          MONTAGE END


INT. MATTHEW’S BEDROOM - DAY

Matthew is curled up in a ball facing the wall.

We hear a knock at the door. Matthew ignores it.

                    MARK (O.S.)
          Matthew.

No answer.

                    MARK (O.S.) (CONT'D)
               (assertively)
          Matthew open up.
               (beat)
          I’m coming in.

He swings open the door and enters.

Mark takes in the room, it’s a mess: covered in empty packets
of crisps; an empty bottle of vodka; dirty plates etc...

Mark crosses the room and throws open the curtains.

                    MARK (CONT'D)
          Be ready in 15 minutes, we’re going
          out.


INT. CAR - DAY

It's raining and Matthew and Mark are parked up somewhere, sat
in silence. Matthew's staring out the window, mind blank as
ever.

There's empty takeaway packaging in the console, Matthew's is
still full.

It takes Mark several attempts to start the conversation
before he's finally able to find the right words.

                    MARK
          Are the chips alright?

No response.

                    MARK (CONT'D)
          Sylvia told us what was going on.
          Look, no one knows who they are at
          your age Matthew. You're still
          finding out what you want, how you
          feel, how to act. It's as if you're
          figthing the world, all on your
          own. Screaming for your own bit of
          independance and no one's
          listening. I can't imagine what it
          must be like to fight for your own
          place in the world, as well as
          fighting yourself.
               (pause)
          Have you spoken to him?

Matthew shakes his head. Mark sighs.

                    MARK (CONT'D)
          Daniel's still you're best friend
          you know. He's worried about you.
          Now I can't pretend I know how you
          feel, but I imagine you're feeling
          lost, and angry, but likely shame.
          Shame at who you really are and
          what that might mean.

Matthew's staring out of the window, embarrassed, ashamed,
trying to hide the fact that he might be crying.

                    MARK (CONT'D)
          There's worse things to feel than
          shame Matthew. To feel artifical, a
          life of not being who you truly
          are, is a life not worth living,
          wasted. Too many years are spent by
          people acting how they think they
          should.
               (pause)
          I want you to be the happiest you
          can be and I need you to know that
          I will always protect you. That you
          will always have a place to call
          home. Now I know your mother and I
          don't make home the calmest place
          to be, but, you are loved Matthew.
          And you will always be safe there.

Matthew looks appreciatively at his father, holding back
tears. Mark looks back with love and sympathy, and worry.

Matthew starts to slowly eat his food.

The gap between them is a lot closer to being bridged.


INT. MATTHEW’S BEDROOM - AFTERNOON

Matthew stands in front of the mirror in just a towel wrapped
around his waist. His prom suits hangs neatly on his wardrobe
behind him.

He stares at himself, then his prom suit, and back to himself
again. His eyes start to gently tear up.

He collapses down onto the floor, slumped against the wall and
just lightly cries. He doesn’t have the energy to sob anymore,
he just lets the tears drip out of his eyes.

He stares at himself in the mirror.

He can't be bothered to fight anymore.


INT. LIVING ROOM - EVENING

Matthew stands awkwardly in the centre of the living room as
Sarah rushes around him taking photos on the family camera.

He goes along with it, smiling for the camera.

He’s much more present in the moment, joining in with the
family antics.

Matthew sends Mark a faint smile. Thank you. Mark sends it
back.

                    SARAH
          Sylvia go stand next to your
          brother, I need one of the both of
          you.

                    MARK
          Are you sure you don’t want a lift?

Sylvia sighs and grudgingly stands next to her brother. They
exchange a glance and appease their mother, smiling for the
shot.

                    MATTHEW
          It’s fine Dad, thanks.


EXT. MATTHEW’S HOUSE (FRONT DOOR) - EVENING

Matthew leaves his house dressed in his prom suit holding his
YELLOW BACKPACK.

He closes the front door and immediately the facade he’d put
up for his family deflates.

His phone vibrates, he checks it.

                    DANIEL
               (text)
          Are you coming tonight?

He ignores it, turns, and leaves.


EXT. TREE HOUSE - EVENING

![](/images/diy/diy5.jpg)

Matt sits in his same spot in the tree house.

His YELLOW BACKPACK is sat next to him and he’s sipping gently
from his FLASK.

He stares off into the distance, something moves into our line
of sight, just behind Matthew. He doesn’t notice.

Gradually it’s revealed: Daniel is standing there, dressed in
his prom suit too, looking up at Matthew.

                            THE END